There is an ontological argument for God’s existence that goes something like this. If I 
can imagine God, as a simple idea in my mind, but there is no physical sign of God in 
my reality, then I must be able to imagine an even greater force or power than the original 
God I just imagined. Yet, I cannot do such a thing, therefore God must exist in my 
imagination and in my reality. My mind has led me astray on many occasions, it chooses 
to prance and play with the variables that lay before me in my physical reality. The 
beauty of imagination is the beast of reality. I’ve attempted to analyze my own 
dissatisfaction with the world and the core of my misery lies within the abstract 
reality that is my mind. The idea of a moment has always been superior to the moment 
that happens. Whether the idea resembles a moment or a person, I can’t help but regret 
letting my true reality sink in and watch as my idea is slowly drawn away by the brashness 
of objectivity. That’s not to say that that same moment won’t once again find its preferred 
essence, maybe as a memory I can toil with, but the idea previously lived to be ultimately 
forgotten. Maybe, it is just the fact that I can’t handle the lack of control that ensues 
when I choose to actually go forth with an idea, my ego lost within this objective world, 
which unveils itself once the subjective veil is lifted. Many years of my life have been 
devoted to conjuring visions of moments shared with individuals or piecing together their 
identities based solely on their online personas. Nervousness, stemming from the anticipation 
of the unknown, accompanies these musings. I grasp onto the limited attributes I can discern, 
weaving intricate narratives from these fragments. Yet, when the time does arise, when I have 
to let go of these cherished ideas, I temporarily lose sight of the moment. I instinctively 
seek out additional symbols, variables, and abstract interpretations, only to discover that 
I've returned to the very predicament I had just emerged from. Slowly, I’ve started to realize 
the role of abstraction in my life, and possibly every human, the dance of symbols in front of 
our very eyes. Reality composed of fragmentary symbolic overlays, an eclectic mix of themes, 
I suppose. To be quite frank, it is a struggle to even reason with the thought of it. In relation 
to my lust for somebody, I find myself tethered to the thought of them, even after meeting their 
physical being, the moments that we share lend their hand to another layer abstracted from the 
pure reality of our relationship. But, abstraction doesn’t just lie in this theme, it follows a 
unique path from language to being to music to all instances of creation.