Everywhere I look I find myself immersed in the nature of paradox. The sight of such duality
is not something that I have grown to dislike, in fact the connotation of the word has 
gradually become terribly beautiful. The essence of abstraction flashes its little obnoxious
head in order to garner the praise it rightfully deserves. The word “connotation” even 
demonstrates a key principle I’m trying to write about. Connotation, given by its 
online definiton, ” an idea or feeling that a word invokes in addition to its literal 
or primary meaning.” The way I understand the meaning of “connotation”, is that it 
is the feeling surrounding a word, a feeling that possibly comes before the literal 
meaning of that said word, because something surrounding an object will be the first 
line of defense when attempting to perceive said object. The feeling is intuitive, no 
sense for a feeling to be anything but intuitive, only if that said feeling is referenced
in retrospect of course. The “abstract” feeling that rests upon a word (that is the way 
I want you to represent connotation in your mind, as a sort of top down experience, 
envision a pyramid, with the peak representing the abstractive form and the base 
representing the total form) When I discuss abstraction, I discuss a particular or 
the particular, when I reference its counterpart, or its “source”, I am referencing 
the totality. This is the main paradox that I want to address, the abstraction of 
totality or vice versa. The basis of abstraction has found its way throughout human 
nature since our divine creation. Abstraction can even be found when referencing 
theories involving consciousness and the operations of the human mind. The human mind
is generally distinctly divided by two processes, the conscious and the unconscious. 
The unconscious rarely is acknowledged, yet the majority of all thought is worked out 
in this area. The conscious relies on the abstraction, in order to keep the ball 
rolling, a sample of endless probability. The unconscious is constantly working 
behind the scenes, consistently calculating probability after probability, whilst 
the conscious works by acknowledging the possibilities of perception (in all facets) 
and sampling out a singular point to move forward with. “The function of consciousness 
may be to simplify perception by drafting a summary of the current environment before 
voicing it out loud, in a coherent manner, to all other areas involved in memory, decision, 
and action.” “This seems to be a major function of consciousness to collect the 
information from various processors, synthesize it, and then broadcast the result–a conscious 
symbol–to other, arbitrarily selected processors. These processors, in turn, apply their 
unconscious skills to this symbol, and the entire cycle may repeat a number of times. 
The outcome is a hybrid serial-parallel machine, in which stages of massively parallel 
computation are interleaved with a serial stage of conscious decision making and information 
routing.” Abstraction works in two forms within the realm of consciousness. One aspect is the 
aforementioned singling out feature, the feature that is most important in decision making 
(i use this term loosely to describe the decision process of the human mind in general, 
specifically perception) The second aspect is generally what most people understand abstract 
to mean. Abstract concepts such as emotions, metaphors, even thinking itself. Pertaining to 
emotion, you have the abstract concept of love. Love is a sort of umbrella term. Love can 
be defined in a multitude of ways, or symbolized, such as holding hands, kissing, having 
sex, etc. These subconcepts create parallel connections amongst each other that allow the 
concept of Love to strengthen. The web based on these connections is the source of the meaning 
of Love. The concept of Love is abstracted from the totality of these actions, ideas, concepts, 
etc. Pertaining to “parallel”, this is a very important part of the basis of consciousness, 
or perception as a whole. The divide between machine and man can be attributed to such a concept. 
The divide between analog vs digital. Analog being a direct descent of analogy, meaning a 
comparison between two things. Parallel only exists with a property greater than 1. Consciousness 
is sourced from the tandem effort of the human mind, as opposed to a machine singling out a 
localized area. This concept is demonstrated when looking at unconscious patients. As an 
unconscious patient is stimulated in a certain part of the brain, only that part of the brain 
will respond to the stimulus, however when looking at a conscious patient’s brain, when a 
localized part of the brain is stimulated, the stimulation rolls around the brain, as if the 
totality of the mind is working in tandem when conscious. 