The self, according to Jean-Paul Sartre, is a matter of personal choice, or 
inherently subjective. (pg. 352) Sartre’s viewpoint on the self is based on 
the premise of existentialism, such as, “existence precedes essence”. Essentially, 
Sartre believes that the man is initially thrusted into existence without a prior 
definition of their nature. The essence of man is subjectively conjured by each 
individual as they have their own bouts with the world and their existence. As 
Sartre states, “man first of all exists, encounters himself, surges up in the 
world—and defines himself afterwards.” (pg. 353) Sartre does not believe in the 
idea of “human nature”, since the existence of “human nature” would imply a prior 
conception of Man. The idea of “human nature” can be linked to the initial mode 
of thought of past philosophers, such as Kant, Diderot, and Voltaire. (pg. 352) 
The idea of a general “human nature” is expressed through the aphorism, “essence 
precedes existence”. Sartre gives an example of this mode of thought by describing 
an artisan developing a tool, such that the artisan was cognizant of the utilization 
of that tool prior to its development, ergo the production of the tool preceded its 
existence. (pg. 352) Sartre goes on to associate this development of a tool, to the 
creation of Man by God, “individual man is the realization of a certain conception 
which dwells in the divine understanding.” (pg. 352) Sartre does not believe in an 
objective conception of Man by the hands of a deity or even just the general sense of 
“human nature”. Sartre states, “there is no human nature, because there is no God to 
have a conception of it. Man simply is.” (pg. 353) Sartre also makes the distinction 
between what man “purposes to be” and what man “wishes to be”. Sartre believes that what 
man “purposes to be”, is the true proponent of defining yourself, since our wishes or 
wills are preceded by our initial decision to act which directly stems from our purpose. 
With the notion of, “existence precedes essence”, Man is also then responsible for the 
entirety of his actions and choices. The responsibility of Man extends to all humanity 
as well, since an individual’s subjective interpretation of their existence, influences 
others as well. Without a prior conception of Man, based on God’s image or another primary 
source, Man must conceive himself through the consolidation of his own individuality and 
the individuality of others surrounding him, or vice versa. Personally, I do agree with 
the notion that the self is defined subjectively by Man’s own personal choices. Additionally, 
I also stand by Sartre’s notion about Man’s actions being unique, but limited to the 
general perception of what He ought to be. (pg. 353) I believe that there is not a correct 
way to be a “human being”, yet just stating that is contradictory. Pertaining to unique 
choices and actions by Man, I believe that every action taken upon an individual is in 
itself a creation, such as an artist strokes his paint brush across a blank canvas, a 
person may provide uniqueness to a conversation through his thoughts, word usage, position, 
etc. However, these decisions made by the individual have been greatly influenced by prior 
notions of how to be. Therefore, where is the distinction between uniqueness and commonality? 
How far must an action stick out before it is given the distinction of uniqueness as opposed to 
a commonality? Man creatively curates his own essence through the interaction with his own 
existence, every action taken being influenced by a particular subjective experience, yet 
how does Man still relate to each other? I suppose through the succession of uniqueness 
from a multitude of individuals, a commonality or a consensus of experience is brought about. 
I may disagree with Sartre on his point that the self is inherently subjective, since there 
is still a fundamental layout of human nature biologically, sociologically, chemically, etc. 
As humans, we are born with our ancestor’s DNA, born with prior knowledge of how to navigate 
the world, how to perceive it, such as a baby’s ability to immediately recognize a face after 
birth. Man is born with an inherent learning model to navigate the world, so I suppose this 
learning model’s uniqueness increases over time, as the individual adds depth to itself from 
its choices and actions, yet those actions and choices just stem from other individuals on a 
smaller scale such as a family’s influence, or on a larger scale, such as a country’s influence. 
Still, that individual is uniquely curating their lifestyle through the consolidation of all 
those factors. Therefore, I believe Sartre’s idea of the self still remains, such that the 
subjective choices of an individual stand in opposition to the idea of a general conception 
of Man by a deity, which in turn, causes great responsibility for Man and those that surround Him. 